# FabricMagic

Jess and Rob will present Fabric Magic at PSConfEU 2025... but what is the magic?

The Slides should be [here](https://sewells.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/sites/JessAndRob/Shared%20Documents/PsConfEU?csf=1&web=1&e=3MclgQ)

## Plan
- some time talking about what Fabric is and how people can support that
- powershell
  - create capacity
  - create 6 workspaces (dev,dev-dwh, etc)
  - create dwh
  - create pipeliney things
  - fabric-cicd deployments
  - deployment pipelines for dwh
    - oh look the change didn't actually go into source control
- talk about some of the missing parts
  - if you delete something the name isn't immedieatly deleted - it takes 'some time' to be able to reuse it
- talk about cicd options as we go
- aimed at admins
  - we haven't and won't talk about capacity units, throttling, smoothing... etc
  - and how the graph to show why you're out of capacity.. is within the capacity.. that has no capacity...

## Abstract

Microsoft Fabric for the PowerShell Pro
Have you heard the data folks in your organization talking about Microsoft Fabric? Or perhaps you administer the Azure environment and you’ve noticed a (big) new line item on the bill?

Microsoft Fabric is an end-to-end data analytics platform that integrates data engineering, data warehousing, real-time analytics, and AI into a unified environment. Now that's a lot of buzzwords! This session will not only explain ‘What is Microsoft Fabric?’, but also demonstrate some ways in which developers can interact and use Fabric.

Join us as we not only demonstrate how to use PowerShell to perform Fabric administration tasks such as spinning up a new workspace, creating and using restore points, and getting a list of data pipelines.

But also use Fabric as the destination of data collected by some of our favourite PowerShell tools. We’ll take data generated by dbatools and dbachecks and persist it in our Fabric environment for analysis.

## Ideas

- Azure functions in Fabric to do things?
- Automate Fabric management with APIs\CLI --> PowerShell - PSFabricTools module
- Talk to Gabi - Jess chatted to her at SQL Konf and she has ideas

## Links

- [Azure Service Fabric CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-fabric/service-fabric-cli)
- [fabric-cicd](https://microsoft.github.io/fabric-cicd)
- [Fabric Studio](https://github.com/gbrueckl/FabricStudio)
